# Changelog
All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
Starting with version 2.0.0 this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

### Overview

### Added

### Changed

### Deprecated

### Removed

### Fixed


## [1.8.2] - 2019-11-14

### Overview
Version 1.8.2 of the Ember+ SDK is a maintenance release that fixes two issues recently discovered in the libember C++ library.

### Fixed
- libember: Fixed an incorrect assumption about the length of multibyte encoded values. (#102).
- libember: Fixed a missing `null` pointer check, before use (#103).


## [1.8.0] - 2019-02-14

### Overview
Version 1.8.0 of the Ember+ SDK is a feature release that introduces various new features to the GLOW DTD.
- Multiple schema references per node.
- Node templates to reduce redundant traffic.
- Parameters may now have the value `null` to indicate that no value is present.

Apart from this new feature this release also contains numerous fixes and stability improvements.

Please note that that version 1.8.0 is a *best effort* release to provide a stable reference for all features introduced since the beginning of 2014. Going forward several structural changes will be made to the projects and its libraries:
- The Ember+ protocol will enter a feature frozen maintenance mode meaning there will be no extensions in the foreseeable future as it is now considered feature complete. 
- All libraries will be split into separate git repositories. The monolithic repository will be maintained using subtree copies generated by [git subrepo](https://github.com/ingydotnet/git-subrepo).
- All libraries will transition to individual, semantic versioning starting with version 2.0.0.

Apart from these structural changes the current mid-term roadmap foresees transitioning the C++ libraries `libs101`, `libformula` and `libember` to C++17. The C++03 variant will be frozen at version 1.8.0 with the exception of important fixes that may be backported by popular request.


### Added
- All: Added CMake build instructions.
- All: Added support for the new GLOW DTD features.
- libember: Added convenience operations `front()`, `pop_front()` and `pop_back()` to `ObjectIdentifier`.
- libember: Added support for floating point type NaN encoding and decoding.
- libember_slim: Allow building and using libember_slim as a shared library.
- libember_slim: Added callbacks for `onOtherPackageReceived`, `onFirstPackageReceived` and `onLastPackageReceived`. The original callback `onPackageReceived` still exists, but is not only invoked when an ember packet has been decoded.
- libs101: The encoder and decoder now support the non-escaping variant.

### Changed
- TinyEmberPlus: TinyEmberPlus is now built against Qt5.

### Fixed
- All: Fixed issues #51, #52 and #54.
- libember: Fixed issues #26, #45 and #48.
- libember: Fixed potential memory leaks during decoding in `DomReader`.
- libember: Fixed a memory leak caused by `ListContainer::eraseImpl()` not freeing memory allocated to the erased nodes.
- libember: Fixed `StreamBuffer` not swapping the maximum size.
- libember_slim: Fixed issue #38.
- EmberLib.Net: Fixed `NullReferenceExceptions` in error cases.
- libformula: `Term::compute()` no longer uses global state.

## [1.6.2] - 2014-02-26

### Overview
Version 1.6.2 of the Ember+ SDK is a maintenance release that fixes an important oversight in version 1.6.0 with regard to the correct spelling of the newly introduced `schemaIdentifiers` attribute.

In addition to this functional change this release increases stability and addresses a few performance problems. All users of the 1.6.0 version are encouraged to update to this release as soon as possible.

### Added
- Added a method called compliesWithSchema which tests whether a schema is part of the schema identifier collection of a node, parameter or matrix.

### Fixed
- Updated DTD version implemented by the various libraries to 2.31 which includes a minor change to the naming of the schemaIdentifier attribute.<br />Please note that this requires a small change to client code that uses the accessors, because the spelling has been changed from the singular form "schemaIdentifier" to the plural form "schemaIdentifiers".
- Fixed potential memory leaks during decoding in `DomReader`.
- Optimized the equality comparison of two type erased iterator instances, yielding a massive performance improvement in typical loop constructs.
- Corrected the signedness of a few temporary variables and integral constants used in the implementation.
- Removed extraneous semicolons that caused compiler warnings on high warning-levels.
- Removed obsolete entries from the Doxygen configuration and corrected wrong output directories in the Doxygen configuration.


## [1.6.0] - 2014-02-26

### Overview
Version 1.6.0 of the Ember+ SDK is a feature release that introduces the new Schema extension to the GLOW DTD.

Apart from this new feature this release also contains numerous fixes and stability improvements.

### Added
- Added a Ruby script that converts the premake4 generated VS2012 solution to VS2013 because the automated conversion no longer works reliable  strange licensing reasons.
- Added traits to determine the property type from a GLOW type.
- Added `libember::ber::ObjectIdentifier::push_back(..)` and `libember::ber::ObjectIdentifier::push_front(..)` to allow building a path iteratively. Changed the underlying container to `std::deque<..>` in order to support `push_front(..)`.
- Added `libember::ber::ObjectIdentifier::back()` to access the last element of the OID.
- Added explicit constructor taking an argument of type value_type to some of the enum-wrappers (`CommandType`, `MessageType`, `Dtd`). `PackageFlag` and `Byte` already have a non-explicit constructor taking an argument of type `value_type`.
- Added equality operators for some of the enum-wrapper types.

### Changed
- Declared the step property of the parameter as deprecated.<br />The documentation contains a hint that this property may also be removed in future releases of the libraries.
- Declared `GlowRootElementCollection::create()` as deprecated.
- Corrected target prefix for libember and libember_slim to avoid the double "liblib" prefix on Unix like systems.
- Modified linker options to set RPATH to '.' on Unix like systems.
- Added (currently failing) test for issue #6.

### Fixed
- Fixed issue #13, by changing the visibility of the default constructor of `GlowRootElementCollection` and setting the root tag in the default constructor.
- Fixed issue #14 by replacing the standard container with a more suitable alternative and storing the stack elements by value.
- Fixed issue #15 by Replacing C++11 specific constructs in libember with their C++03 equivalents and changing the C++ language standard on non-Windows platforms from C++11 to C++03.
- Fixed issue #17, pass (type-erased) iterator by const-reference, because copying it is expensive.
- Fixed macro to generate type-traits, which was causing errors under GCC.
- Fixed `GlowTupleItemDescription::type()` always returning `ParameterType::None`.
- Fixed a lot of warnings at high warning levels.
- Fixed errors reported by cppcheck.
- Fixed Simian warnings in various parts of the Ember+ libraries.
- Fixed a broken link in the Ember+ documentation.


## [1.4.0] - 2013-07-08

### Overview
Version 1.4.0 of the Ember+ SDK is a feature release that introduces provider specified callable functions the GLOW DTD.

Apart from this new feature this release also contains numerous fixes and stability improvements.

### Added
- Added a method to `glow::Value` to convert it to an instance of `ber::Value`.
- Added methods `hasEnumeration` and `effectiveParameter` method to `GlowParameterBase`.
- Added the enumeration entry `ParameterType::None` to indicate that the type is unknown or not present.
- The methods `minimum`, `maximum`, `value` and `defaultValue` of the class `GlowParameterBase` now return an instance of `Value` or `MinMax` with the parameter type set to `None` when the requested value is not present.
- Added comparison operators for the `ObjectIdentifier` class.

### Fixed
- Fixed issues #4, #5, #10, #11 and #12.
- Fixed encoding of real numbers that treated the mantiassa as signed.
- Fixed encoding of unsigned ling values that caused the encoded value to contain a leading zero.
- Fixed `DomReader` not decoding values of type `OctetString`.
- Fixed wrong GLOW tag of `EmberPlus-Glow.MatrixContents.labels`.


## [1.2.0]

### Overview
Unfortunately no detailed changelog is available for this version.


## [1.0.0]

### Overview
Unfortunately no detailed changelog is available for this version.


## [0.9.0]

### Overview
Unfortunately no detailed changelog is available for this version.


## [0.8.0]

### Overview
Unfortunately no detailed changelog is available for this version.


[Unreleased]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/v1.8.2...HEAD
[1.8.2]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/v1.8.0...v1.8.2
[1.8.0]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/v1.6.2...v1.8.0
[1.6.2]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/v1.6.0...v1.6.2
[1.6.0]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/v1.4.0...v1.6.0
[1.4.0]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/embersdk-1-2-0...v1.4.0
[1.2.0]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/embersdk-1-0-0...embersdk-1-2-0
[1.0.0]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/embersdk-0-9-0...embersdk-1-0-0
[0.9.0]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/embersdk-0-8-0...embersdk-0-9-0
[0.8.0]: https://github.com/lawo/ember-plus/compare/embersdk-0-6-0...embersdk-0-8-0

